>> David Khourshid: So
what I wanna talk about now is using URL,
the query parameters for state management.
This is something that is typically
overlooked because it's just
not something we think about.
And also it's sort of difficult to do,
especially if you're using
a framework like Remix or Next,
they don't make it the easiest thing
to synchronize state with the URL.
However, in many web applications, and
this goes back even to the early 2000s,
1990s, the URL was actually
the source of truth.
So think about it.
Let's say that you want to have some
sort of form or some sort of view
where you're searching for things and
you want to actually have it so
that the URL maintains the state, so
you have everything in query parameters.
There's a lot of benefits to this.
First of all, the form data is not gonna
be lost on page refresh because you
already have that data in
the query parameters and
you could use it directly on the page.
Also, that long string
with the query parameters,
you can bookmark it,
you could share those URLs.
And the back button is
actually going to work and
preserve that form state
because we're using the natural
history mechanism of the browser
to maintain that state for us.
So again, URLs are really,
really overlooked when it
comes to state management.
But honestly, a lot of our
applications can really benefit from
using the URL as a source of truth for
state.
There is an external
library called nuqs and
N-U-Q-S that does make
this pretty easy to do.
And I'm going to demonstrate to you
how nuqs can make this a lot easier.
But first let's take a look at the actual
problems that we're dealing with.
So if you go to exercise-URL,
we have our flight booking form as normal.
We have our one way flight,
we could put in a destination,
our departure date, the number of
passengers, and search for flights.
You know what, I don't actually wanna
go to Tokyo, so let me go back and
change that to Osaka.
Wow, okay, so everything changed except
the number of passengers for some reason.
But everything changed and
everything disappeared.
And now as a user I'm a little
bit frustrated about that.
So that's just not cool.
So if I put a destination here,
go to search flights and
let's say that, okay,
I actually like these results for
this imaginary place that I searched and
I want to sort by duration,
see the direct flights, and actually
share this with one of my friends.
I can't because there's no query
parameters, there's nothing for me to
share that basically when I reload, first
of all, this view is going to go away.
And even if that view didn't go away,
like if it was a different page,
I would lose all of my results.
So it's just really not a good situation.
All right, so
how can we actually fix that?
So if you go to urlpage.ts,
we are going to
use a library called nuqs, N-U-Q-S.
So we have a bunch of use states here.
And we've done so many exercises
where it's like, okay, yeah,
let's consolidate these,
let's put them in a reducer, et cetera.
We're not actually going
to be doing that here.
Instead we're going to be replacing this
useState with use query state from nuqs.
The only difference here is
we want to give it a name.
So it's going to be, for example,
usequery state destination and
then this is going to be
usequery state departure arrival.
This is what shows up in the URL.
And then this is one way set is one way.
This one is a little bit different.
All of these are strings, or
we could use them as strings.
But with usequery state,
it assumes that since the URL is a string,
everything's gonna be a string.
It's not the case over here.
We actually want to parse
this as a Boolean value.
And so the way that Nuqs works is we have
a way to parse the value and so you could
return the value as true and, and
then you could go the other way around.
And so, based on the value that is set,
we would set that to true or false.
Or we could do things like set this as one
or zero, it just needs to be a string.
But Nuqs does have a lot of shortcuts for
that.
So we could just parse as Boolean and
then give it a default of false,
for example.
So now let's see this in practice,
when we go back here,
we are now going to see
an error value prop on input.
Interesting, don't care.
So you are going to now see that
when I toggle, for example,
one way flight,
it's updating the URL for us.
And also because the default is false,
that actually disappears
when we set that to false.
So now we could enter a destination and
you could see that it is changing
in the URL as we are changing that.
And also it's not pushing to history,
instead it's replacing the history.
So you're not going to get that annoying
thing where when you go back it's toki and
then you go back it's toke, etc.
Instead it's going to treat
it as a single transaction.
Then we could set the date.
So we set the departure
number of passengers.
I think we forgot to add that in,
it's okay.
The idea is that when we search
flights and we go back to our search,
none of our data is lost,
which is really awesome.
So if we take a look
at the search results,
then we could basically do
the same thing over here.
So this, we might need to change
it because this needs to be an id.
And so
this goes back to an earlier lesson.
Instead of duplicating states,
we want to really instead derive it.
So we would want to set the flight id.
And so this one, we use query state
parses Boolean with defaults false.
And there's another one here
where we could parse as enum or.
Sorry, it's not parse as enum,
it's something else.
It is, parse as string enum.
Be careful of AI coding assistants because
they will hallucinate different answers.
But yeah, so you can have things
that go beyond a string and
you could also have these string enums.
We're deriving state over here,
which is good,
but yeah, so
now we should see that this works when.
And you could see that it's
actually changing over here.
When we actually change ascending,
descending, etc,
it is going to change in the URL.
So there's one more thing to do which is,
let's see, forget what it is.
Yeah.
So if we go to the solution,
because the other problem here is
that if we reload it is going to go
back to the original screen and
we don't necessarily want that.
So the way that we solve this
in the solution is that we
actually have a view variable.
And so
just to show you what that looks like,
we have view, set,
view and then we're using
query state of the current
view that we're on.
So having this in the reducer
makes this a little bit easier.
But yeah, so yeah, so that's a basic intro
to using the URL query parameters estate.
It's something that I really encourage.
Like when you have something where
you want the URL to be shareable,
you want the URL to be
the source of truth.
For part, if not all of your
components in a certain view,
definitely consider using the URL
query parameters for states.
>> Speaker 2: What if instead
of using a view parameter,
we just check to see if history
has anything pushed to it.
So just if they essentially
go to the URL and
there's no history,
there's nothing to go back to,
then you could assume that they're going
straight into the view of results.
>> David Khourshid: Potentially, yeah.
And that could work in some cases.
I just like to be explicit.
And this view equals or step equals.
This is something that you will see
commonly in URL query parameters anyway
where it explicitly says
which step you're on.
So it's a difference between
implicit versus explicit states.
>> Speaker 3: And just to double
check here, the first couple params,
that's actually from the first page.
>> David Khourshid: Yes, and
that's so that we have that.
And look, if I go back, oops.
Or forward, I did that wrong.
We could go back.
We could go forward and
get those search results back.
And forward works pretty naturally,
which is pretty nice.
But yeah, going back to the original
question of what if the user changes that?
Like let's say that they're,
I don't know, playing a game or
they want to jump
directly to confirmation.
This is why you would want either
something on the server or
you could have frontend logic that says,
are we in an impossible state?
Just use Zod to validate that and
basically kick them out if they're not
supposed to be on that part of the URL or
if the state is just inconsistent with
what is expected in the application.
>> Speaker 2: I think that's why partly on
the reducer you always have the default
just basically return whatever
it was back at them so
that there's no actions taken that they
would want to be able to get into.
>> David Khourshid: Right, right, exactly.
And that's another good point about
reducers is that potentially you
could limit when actions
actually should change the state.
And that's something that I
haven't dived too deep into.
But right now, when we're using
useReducer a lot, it's action first.
But if you do it state first,
then that's another way that you
could prevent impossible states.
So for example, if I'm loading data,
but I have a back button and
I go back to the form where I just enter
my input and everything like that.
And I have an action that's like,
all right, I got the search results,
take me to the results page.
What should actually happen is I should
only be able to go there if I'm in a state
where I'm waiting for results.
If I'm not in that state, like if I'm on
the first step, where I'm just entering
search information, then that action
should be completely ignored.
So that's a core principle of state
machines just preventing impossible
transitions like that.